On the basis of the assessment carried out in 2024, corporate bonds) have grown from 144 percent the World Bank released the India - Financial Sector to approximately 175 per cent of GDP since the Assessment (FSA) Report on October 30, 2025. The 2017 assessment, backed by a robust market report observes that against a backdrop of robust infrastructure. The mutual fund industry’s AUM macroeconomic growth, India’s financial system has has grown from 6 to 16 per cent of GDP over the become more resilient, diversified, and inclusive since last decade, driven by a significant influx of retail the last assessment in 2017. While reforms have helped investors into equity funds. the economy navigate past distress episodes and the pandemic, further impetus is required to support the ii.  Proactive Regulation & Supervision: SEBI has India’s goal of becoming a USD 30 trillion economy by proactively bolstered the regulatory framework 2047. by enhancing collateral management, establishing Acknowledging the world-class status of India’s Digital CDMDF and pioneering frameworks for sustainable Public Infrastructure, the assessment recommends that finance and social stock exchanges. However, last-mile reach and account usage be further improved, industry stakeholders note that the increasing while simultaneously strengthening market conduct volume of rules can sometimes affect flexibility and oversight against emerging digital fraud risks. market competitiveness. The report advises SEBI The key insights and takeaways pertaining specifically to to transition from an excessive reliance on upfront India’s capital markets and the role of SEBI are outlined disclosures towards an integrated, risk-based below: supervisory approach that proactively monitors conduct and systemic risks such as inter-sectoral i.  Capital Market Growth & Infrastructure: India’s contagion from mutual funds. capital markets (equity, government bonds, and (Contd.)
A. Memorandum of Understanding for International Co-operation: SEBI is a signatory to the IOSCO’s Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU) for mutual co-operation and exchange of
B. SEBI is also a member of IOSCO’s Board- level Financial Stability Engagement
11.1  INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENTS HAVING IMPLICATIONS FOR INDIAN MARKETS
SEBI actively engages with a range of foreign regulators, international standard-setting bodies and international fora to promote regulatory and enforcement co-operation. Further, SEBI also engages with peer securities market regulators in knowledge sharing to promote mutual co-operation and establish inter-regulatory dialogue. Some key engagements undertaken during 2025-26 are as follows:
C. SEBI is a member of the Asia-Pacific Regional Committee (APRC) which is one of the four regional committees constituted by IOSCO to focus on regional issues relating to securities regulation. During the year, APRC discussed topics such as: (a) online harms and investor protection (b) technology, innovation and future of finance (c) public and private markets (d) supervisory and enforcement priorities in the region.
I. Engagement with IOSCO: The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) is the international body that brings together the world’s securities regulators and is recognized as the global standard setter for the securities sector. SEBI is an ordinary member of IOSCO and also a member of the IOSCO Board. SEBI is a member of all the eight policy committees of IOSCO apart from being a member of its various other groups. Some of SEBI’s key engagements with IOSCO during 2025-26 are outlined below:
II. Engagement with FSB: Financial Stability Board (FSB) is an international body which monitors and makes recommendations about the global financial system and promotes international financial stability. SEBI is one of the three members representing India on FSB. During the year, SEBI participated in discussions and provided inputs with respect to FSB’s recommendations on non-bank financial intermediation sector, vulnerabilities in private credit, digital innovation and operational resilience, etc. SEBI also participated in FSB’s survey on Regulatory and Supervisory Modernisation efforts.
A. SEBI participated in meetings of IOSCO Board held during 2025-26, which inter alia discussed the following issues: (i) strengthening financial resilience (ii) supporting market effectiveness (pre-hedging & valuations in asset management) (iii) protecting investors (launch of IOSCO’s I-SCAN) (iv) addressing risks in sustainable finance and fintech (v) promoting regulatory cooperation and effectiveness, etc.
Group (FSEG), which works towards enhancing IOSCO’s approach to financial stability issues, including with regard to its engagement with the FSB.
information for enforcement purposes. Further, SEBI is also a signatory to the IOSCO’s EMMoU providing for extended co-operation w.r.t. obtaining and sharing audit work papers, compelling physical attendance for testimony, freezing assets, obtaining and sharing existing internet service providers’ records and telephone records.
IV. Engagements with Foreign Delegations/ Signatories: SEBI interacts with and hosts foreign delegations from governments, regulatory authorities, and market participants. These engagements enhance collaboration and promote a deeper understanding of the Indian securities market. A few prominent engagements are listed below:
A. An IMF staff team headed by Mr. Harald Finger, Assistant Director, and Mission Chief visited to understand the macroeconomic situation and financial risks and vulnerabilities with respect to India’s capital market, measures being undertaken to develop corporate bond markets and plans on implementing the recommendations of the IMF/ WB FSAP.
SEBI has also signed bilateral MoU with several foreign securities regulators to enhance co-operation and information exchange for regulatory and enforcement purposes. As of March 31, 2026, SEBI is a signatory to 32 bilateral MoUs, which facilitate sharing of technical domain expertise and support effective enforcement of laws and regulations governing the securities market.
B. A delegation of Special Select Committee on Finance and Economy of the House of Representatives, Parliament of Malaysia led by Hon’ble YB Dato Indera Mohd Shahar Bin Abdullah, Member of Parliament for Paya Besar visited for discussion and exchange of views on various issues. (Image 1)
C. A team from OECD visited for peer review meetings on corporate governance of market service providers and ESG related developments.
I. Mr. Herman Gref, CEO of Sberbank, and Russian delegation discussed areas of mutual interest and possible collaboration. As part of the visit, Sberbank and JSC First Asset Management, introduced a new mutual fund, First-India, offering investments linked to the performance of the Nifty50 Index, providing Russian retail investors an opportunity to directly participate in India’s stock market.
D. Mr. Yosef Zinger, Chairman, Israel Securities Agency (ISA) and officials discussed on enhancing collaboration and knowledge exchange between ISA and SEBI, strategic approaches to market development and challenges, etc.
E. A delegation of officials from TheCityUK and British High Commission, led by Mr. Miles Celic OBE, Chief Executive Officer, TheCityUK discussed areas of mutual interest.
J. A delegation from Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), UK discussed developments on international investments into India from asset managers and institutional investors. The delegation was led by Ms. Camille Blackburn, FCA’s Director for Asia- Pacific.
F. Prof. Dr. Marlene Amstad, Chairperson, Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority discussed issues of mutual interest and co-operation.
G. A delegation from Indonesia headed by Mr. Thomas A.M. Djiwandono, Vice Minister of Finance, Republic of Indonesia discussed issues of mutual interest and co-operation.
K. H.E. Mr. Gilles Roth, Minister of Finance of Luxembourg, along with H.E. Mr. Christian Biever, Ambassador of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to India, Mr. Claude Marx, Director General, CSSF Luxembourg, and other senior officials discussed issues of mutual interest and co-operation. (Image 3)
H. Hon. André Ebanks, Premier and Minister of Financial Services and Commerce of the Cayman Islands, discussed areas of mutual interest. (Image 2).
Image 2: Hon’ble André M. Ebanks, Premier of the Cayman Islands and team along with Chairman, SEBI and team.
N. Russian delegation consisting of National
Settlement Depository, Central Bank of
Russia (CBR), led by Mr. Maxim Leonov,
Head of Workstream (BRICS Co-ordinator),
Department for Co-operation with
International Organizations, CBR discussed
areas of mutual co-operation.
V. Facilitation of study tours for foreign authorities
A. SEBI facilitated a 4-day study tour for the
delegates from CMSA Tanzania headed by
Image 3: H.E. Mr. Gilles Roth, Minister of Finance of Luxembourg along with Chairman, SEBI
also facilitated dialogues with the National
Stock Exchange, the Indian Venture
L. Mr. Francois-Philippe Champagne,
Capital Association, and interactions with
Honourable Minister of Finance, Canada to
leading fund managers that illuminated the
discuss issues on facilitating investments
practical insights into the subject.
and collaboration. (Image 4)
B. A senior level delegation from Securities
M. Officials from Colombo Stock Exchange
Commission, Malaysia headed by Ms.
led by Ms. Punyamali Saparamadu, Senior
Azalina Adham, Managing Director, visited
Vice President visited SEBI to discuss
SEBI for bilateral engagements. The
operational frameworks of derivatives
delegation also interacted with officials
Image 4: Mr. Francois-Philippe Champagne, Honourable Minister of Finance, Canada along with Chairman, SEBI and team
Australia. The fireside chat was moderated
of NISM on capacity building and had an
by Mr. Peter Stein, Chief Executive Officer,
interaction with SEBI Chairman for areas
of mutual interest and possible future
VII. Contribution to various International Treaties,
Dialogues, visits by/ of high level dignitaries
Zealand, Japan, Israel, Korea etc.
B. SEBI provided inputs for high-level bilateral
B. During October 2025, Chairman, SEBI
meetings/ engagements with the foreign
participated in a panel discussion at
dignitaries viz. Netherlands, Germany,
the OECD Roundtable on Corporate
France, USA, Israel, Japan, Russia,
Sustainability Practices in Paris and talked
Singapore, Indonesia, Austria, Canada,
C. During March 2026, Chairman, SEBI
participated in a fireside chat on “The India
C. SEBI also provided inputs for various Free
Story: Growth and opportunity” during
Trade Agreements (FTAs) negotiations of
India with USA, UK, New Zealand, Maldives
ASIFMA 2026 Annual Conference in Sydney,
Image 5: Prof. Dr. Marlene Amstad, Chairperson, Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, Mr. Tuang Lee Lim, Assistant Managing Director, Monetary Authority of Singapore and Chairman, SEBI during a panel discussion at GFF 2025.
A. During 2025-26, SEBI provided inputs on
various issues, agenda items and topics
A. During September 2025, Chairman, SEBI
relating to the securities markets for
participated in a panel discussion on
international dialogues. SEBI contributed
Artificial Intelligence organised by Autorité
to such dialogues with countries including
des Marchés Financiers, France and
UK, USA, EU, France, Germany, New
transformations in capital market and navigating
iii. Investor Base: The investor base is diverse and
explanatory documentation regarding investment risks and fee structures for retail investors. Furthermore, the report notes that while the first-level regulator model has proven effective for MIIs, relying on unsupervised entities like AMFI to manage large number of distributors poses oversight risks and recommended that SEBI be granted explicit authority to designate and supervise such entities as formal SROs when appropriate.
segmented across asset classes. Yet key barriers
continue to limit their role in financing long-term
investments and infrastructure. DIIs are still
excessively risk averse and need to enhance their
iv. Modernizing the Corporate Bond Market: Despite
the expansion of outstanding issuances, the
corporate bond market remains relatively small
(around 16 percent of GDP). To develop a deeper and
vi. Sustainability and Emerging Risks: While the financial sector’s exposure to physical and transition risks appears manageable, there is a risk of spillover from concentrated energy- sector exposures of NBFIs to capital markets and lenders. While SEBI has taken measures such as introducing frameworks for sustainable investments and preventing greenwashing, the report advises authorities to incorporate climate and environmental risks within macro-prudential surveillance and develop system-wide stress- testing methodologies.
more vibrant bond market, the report recommends
relaxing restrictions to allow institutional financing
of sub-investment-grade assets, developing credit
enhancement mechanisms, and encouraging
institutional capacity building for risk assessment.
v. Investor Protection and Intermediary Oversight:
With the surge in retail participation, there is a
strong need to mitigate mis-selling and monitor
conduct risks at the point of sale, particularly
for distributors dealing with multiple funds. The
assessment recommends that SEBI simplify key
C. 
Issue-specific Information Exchange- non 
enforcement matters: SEBI also engages 
with regulators/ organizations globally in 
order to exchange information on topical 
issues. During the year, information 
was exchanged on wide-ranging issues 
including 
credit 
ratings, 
settlement, 
automation 
of 
financial 
statements, 
sustainable finance, etc.
Type of References
2024-25
2025-26
Requests received by SEBI from 
Foreign Authorities
111
84
Image 1: Hon’ble YB Dato Indera Mohd Shahar Bin 
Abdullah, Member of Parliament for Paya Besar with 
SEBI Chairman
Requests made by SEBI
37
54
the risks of technology. GFF 2025 also saw a
Year
No. of references
high level panel discussion on ‘Resilient and
2024-25
252
2025-26
173
Inclusive Capital markets in a tech-driven world’
between Mr. Tuang Lee Lim, Assistant Managing
and EU on ‘financial services chapter’. The 
number of Ministry references received in 
last two years is given in Table 11.2.
Director, Monetary Authority of Singapore,
Prof. Dr. Marlene Amstad, Chairperson, Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority and Mr.
VIII. SEBI’s participation in Global Fintech Fest (GFF) 
2025: GFF has evolved into one of the world’s 
largest fintech platforms, bringing together 
regulators, 
innovators, 
industry 
leaders 
and academia to deliberate on the future of 
financial ecosystem. During GFF 2025, IOSCO 
Board Chairman Mr. Jean-Paul Servais gave a 
virtual keynote address. Chairman, SEBI had 
also gave a keynote address on Technology-led
Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Chairman, SEBI. (Image 5)
IX. Financial Sector Assessment Programme: The
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP)
is a joint program of IMF and World Bank that
undertakes a comprehensive and in-depth
analysis of a country’s financial sector. The IMF
and World Bank had jointly initiated the 2024
FSAP for India (Box 11.1).